OneSight clinics is all about taking access
to care to people who wouldn't necessarily
have access to that.
Sometimes we work in regional and remote
locations around Australia and New Zealand,
sometimes in lower socio economic.
We will do a lot of work in homeless shelters,
drug and alcohol rehabilitation centres.
We work in migrant centres.
We're there trying to pick up those that wouldn't
have access through the normal channels.
We believe that everyone deserves access to
quality eye care and a pair of glasses if need
be. And that's why we'll keep going until
the world can see.
My KPI each morning when I get there, the bed is
how many lives can I improve for the better?
We bought the team in a team of volunteers.
We're doing some screening with the kids to try
and identify any needs that they might have
before they move on to school.
To ensure that they can see properly before they
start their educational journey.
A lot of kids we find can go through their whole
school career without getting their eyes tested.
And we find that just because
there is an optometrist or
an eye care specialist handy doesn't necessarily
mean that mum and dad again take the kids there.
We find that by taking the services
to the schools and taking them to the
organisations with the people in need,
then we will uncover those people who ordinarily
just would not get tested.
For us in a kindergarten setting, what we're
looking at doing is trying to identify any
visual needs that kids might have at an early
age.
So it's important that kids get their eyes tested
every 12 months, two years.
And we're here providing that service for those
parents who wouldn't normally take their kids and
getting tested.
Usually during our screening clinics, we check to
see that they can see clearly in the distance.
We then check to make sure that their eyes are
working together and independently.
We make sure that they can read up close.
And then we're also doing some Stereopsis
test. That's just a fancy word that lets them
know can they see in 3D.
And is there any colour deficiencies in
their vision before the optometrists are having a
look at the internals and making sure the of the
health of the eye.
There's a smile on the kid's faces when you go
in.
There is an absolutely incredible experience
to volunteer and to try and help these kids
see a little bit better.
It's important the work that we do, because we
know with kids, 80 per cent of their learning is
visual.
So if you can't see things
you can't learn.
If you can't learn.
You can't earn.
And it's very, very important that the children
have the best opportunity and the best start to
life in.